Which of the following statements is not correct regarding cathode rays ?
A) The rays carry negative charge
B) The charge/mass of these rays is considerably smaller than for positive rays
C) The rays produce mechanical effect
D) The charge/mass ratio is independent of the nature of the gas taken in the discharge tube.
 
The number of protons, electrons and neutrons in 1735Cl- are respectively
A) 17, 18, 18    B) 17, 17, 18   C) 17, 18, 17   D) 17, 18, 38
 
The nucleides X and Y are isotonic to each other with mass numbers 70 and 72 respectively. If the atomic number of X is 34,then that of Y would be
A) 32    B) 34   C) 36   D) 38
 
Neutron was discovered by :
A) J.J. Thomson    B) Chadwick   C) Rutherford   D) Millikan.
 
Isobars have same number of :
A) protons    B) electrons   C) nucleons   D) neutrons
 
Which one of the following conclusions could not be derived from Rutherford’s \alpha-paticle scattering experiments?
A) Most of the space in the atom is empty.
B) The radius of the atom is about {10}^{-10} m while that of nucleus is {10}^{-15} m.
C) Electrons move in a circular path of fixed energy called orbits.
D) Electrons and the nucleus are held together by electrostatic forces of attraction.
 
Which of the following statements is not correct about the characteristics of cathode rays ?
A) They start from the cathode and move towards the anode.
B) They travel in straight line in the absence of an external electrical or magnetic field.
 
Which of the following statement about the electron is incorrect?
A) It is a negatively charged particle
B) The mass of electron is equal to the mass of neutron
C) It is a basic constituent of all atoms
D) It is a constituent of cathode rays
 
Which of the following properties of atom could be explained correctly by Thomson model of atom ?
A) Overall neutrality of atom.
B) Spectra of hydrogen atom.
C) Position of electrons, protons and neutrons in atom.
D) Stability of atom.
 
Two atoms are said to be isobars if
A) they have same atomic number but different mass number.
B) they have same number of electrons but different number of neutrons.
C) they have same number of neutrons but different number of electrons
D) sum of the number of protons and neutrons is same but the number of protons is different.
 
Which of the following statement is not correct regarding electromagnetic spectrum ?
A) The velocity of X-rays is more than that of microwaves
B) Infra-red radiations have larger wavelength than cosmic rays
C) The frequency of microwaves is less than that of ultra-violet rays
D) X-rays have larger wave number than microwaves.
 
The photoelectric emission from a surface starts only when the light incident upon the surface has certain minimum :
A) intensity    B) wavelength   C) frequency   D) velocity
The kinetic energy of the photoelectrons depends upon :
A) intensity of radiation
B) frequency of radiation
C) the intensity and frequency of radiation
D) None of these.
 
Which of the following metal exhibits photoelectric effect readily ?
A) Cs    B) Na   C) Li   D) Mg
